well thanks Molly thanks everybody
thanks for having me
and everybody there I guess good morning
good afternoon good evening wherever you
are I'm here to talk to you today about
textile I work where I've worked at X
out for a few years now you can find us
at textile dye Oh
we're an open source company that were
focused on making data a first-class
citizen on the world wide web you know I
think one thing that really inspired us
is actually an old quote by Juan I don't
remember where it was from but he said a
lot of people were focused on creating
different gauges of the railroad in the
early days of the rail and it really and
railroad really took off when people
focus on standardizing the gauge and
that's something that I run through my
head a lot is that in on the internet
and especially in web 3 and the
decentralized web it's time to really
start focusing on the standard gauge so
we can all build together and build
really awesome and amazing things so
textile is really focused on a handful
of technologies that connect and extend
the p2p ipfs file coin in useful ways
for app builder since and services and
today I really want to talk to you about
two of those technologies threads and
buckets and then tomorrow I'll be
talking about our work to link in file
coin through a technology called the
power gate so hopefully you can join for
that as well but so to jump right in
because I have a lot of a lot of things
I want to share with you I want to focus
on the first technology which is called
threads DB or sometimes just threads for
short
threads really is a technology that rose
out of some what we called our field
studies actually trying to build
applications on on the ipfs network and
realizing where some areas that we could
build helpful technologies for other
people that wanted to do the same thing
and so threats DB is a peer-to-peer
database built on IP FSLIC p2p IP n s IP
LD it's really helping to sandwich and
stack those technologies and then and
then create in
faced four developers that's really easy
to use so we're really focused on
delivering kind of a MongoDB like
developer interface so when a developer
wants to put a database in their
application they don't necessarily want
to think about how they can stack and
sandwich all those protocols they really
just want to start using them into a
very simple starting interface but then
it gives some modular components like a
CL identity CR DTS that developers can
plug-and-play what they need to make
their application run and then finally
it's it has an encryption ssin
first design that enables private
sharing with third party services being
added as well and I'll get deeper into
that cuz I think that's where this gets
really useful for this audience um so
just really quick going inward to thread
threads I'll talk about the database
here first and so every thread which is
kind of a network has a database which
is the local component and these fill
these terms might sound familiar
actually I hope they sound familiar is
that when a developer creates a database
a database has many collections
collections are the schemas that define
what's going to be in that database
inside of a collection there can be many
instances so the objects are the
documents that you're storing in that
database that fulfill those schemas and
then those instances are what you can
add delete and update once you have your
database and so on the Left I have some
code here that's using the JavaScript
library to create a collection of
astronauts with some fields and then
update and query those fields in a very
familiar-looking way and trying to help
the developer not necessarily have to be
thinking about you know content
addresses that are constantly changing
and how they can manage this mutable
data that's actually running over IP FS
but then we're threads is probably
really powerful is the networking and so
there's a couple things I wanted to just
point out about the networking so that
you can start getting your heads around
how this is working and what's different
and new here so when we started building
a textile we we started trying to build
applications that would run in the
browser and mobile devices and in just
real network condition
and when you build a peer-to-peer
application one of the first in kind of
the default ways that you're gonna
architect is that say you are pure a and
you have some data or update that you
want to send to Pier B you would push it
and this is where Lib p2p is fantastic
they can connect to each other and push
these updates but what often happens is
is that that's going to breakdown in
real network conditions where B is
offline or a is online only for a small
amount of time especially in mobile
applications where you can imagine that
the app is only actually connected to
the Internet for a small fraction of the
day and so the next thing that we
layered in is allowing the network to
pull updates so if a tries to make a
change to the data and B comes on later
it can attempt to pull those updates
from a and that's baked into the
networking so the developer doesn't have
to think too much about it but then
again really really interesting to this
audience I think is the third component
which allows a push and pull
architecture so if a tries to make an
update and B is not online a can
actually assume that they're going to be
offline the next time becomes online and
so they're not actually going to be
available for the pull request and so
what they do instead is they can push
those updates to a third party service Z
and then some time can pass and B can
come online and knowing knowing that Z
is available they can actually pull the
updates that they missed and so what
we've tried to do here is take some of
the things that that sort of
technologists learned by making web to
run really well and actually apply them
to the web three space and so what I
mean by that is actually allowing
services and api's to be stood up in a
way that applications can be built on
them and scaled but they don't have to
abandon the idea of letting users own
their data or creating interoperable
data sets or private key infrastructure
and so what this does and I'll show you
how this actually works in a more
technical level it lets end-users own
their data it lets developers provision
services on the network that then those
end-users can make use of without
abandoning abandoning their ownership
and their privacy so yeah so threads DB
really lets people lets end users do
more
with private data and soon public data
and so this is kind of an overview graph
of what's happening when you make a
change to your local database and then
how it can propagate to the network and
some Multi multi layered encryption
that's going to happen to the data the
left side is is sort of what is user
owned and controlled and private and the
right side is where threads enables
third party services and if you if
you're building a pinning service if you
want to build api's friend users that
service key that's mentioned in the
upper right hopefully is making your
ears ring that this might be an
interesting opportunity of something
that you can build on so just a quick
flow here on the bottom left the user
create some raw data the first thing
that's going to happen is the the the
applicator sorry the library is going to
create a symmetric private key for that
data or sorry just a symmetric key for
that data that will encrypt it one-time
use key and you don't have to follow
this this is just for if for those of
you that have kind of your head around
this already but the next step that's
going to happen is there's a shared read
read key so all participants in a thread
who are collaborating on the same data
set can share this read key and so that
will then encrypt the body the encrypted
body from the previous step and the key
and then you want to share that out to
the participants so they can open it up
and see what you've updated in the data
set but the next thing that's going to
happen is actually you're going to wrap
that one more time with some metadata
that links it to the previous updates
and then one more layer of encryption
with what's called this service key and
so with the service key you can't see
anything inside the data but you can see
how the data links across updates so you
can do really interesting things like
surface api's that allow paging or
time-based lookups you can see some
basic metadata so that you can assure
you're providing services to users that
are authenticated to use that service
but you can't actually see what's
happening inside and so that's where the
service key comes in and I can share the
service key for my data set with any
service that I have a level of trust
that I think that they'll give me a
service that I want so for example
archiving or making it available on the
ipfs network so left side user owned
right side available for services to
build on in a really
interesting an open way with these what
and and the threads DB concept allows
you to think about these like
interoperable datasets so once it's user
owned if there are people that are
standing up services or their different
applications that are using these
schemas the user can pull them back out
and put them in new applications and
what this does is it allows you to build
applications that you don't have to ask
the user to run their own nodes as a
first step you don't have to ask the
user do the overhead of actually joining
other networks besides just using your
app but you leave that door open so as
they become more involved is to become
more interested they can find new ways
to make sure their data lives forever or
make sure their data lives in other
applications and they get the most out
of it and so I think really interesting
in the pinning service or the pinning
summit context is that threads are
actually dynamic pin sets so I'll get
into our some of our hosted services
that were making available to developers
but really you can think about updates
to your database you want to persist
them off of your phone or you want to
persist them out of your browser on some
ipfs node that's going to be online
longer and so what you do is you can
take this service key you can push your
your thread updates to these third-party
services that are running ipfs nodes and
they can make sure that data is pinned a
zip inset across the entire thread and
I'll share these slides but some
important links about threads we have
white paper it's it's actually a work in
progress and so but you can really dig
into some of the technical pieces about
how this comes together and then we have
a couple of implementations for using
the database and networking and and
different pieces inside of that and so
that brings me to my my the next piece I
want to talk about which which are
buckets buckets are really the first
application built on threads TB and what
we what we started realizing is that
once you have the thread once you have
this really kind of quick lightweight
database that can be moving data around
with multiple use users collaborating
one thing that you might want to do is
actually just move around dynamic
folders on ipfs and so what threads are
are basically our sorrywhat buckets are
are basically a thread that tracks a
changing dag and so you have a dag that
the head of it is in the metadata of
that of this of the instance in the in
the database and as that instance
changes the thread can push those
updates out to not only all the peers
that are collaborating on that folder of
data but then any services that want to
replicate and make that data available
faster or in more places on ipfs and
it's really cool here because this is
another place that the service key
becomes very interesting because you can
actually let other services subscribe to
changes in your bucket and so we could
build a very push and pull based network
where data is changing and moving across
the network in really interesting ways
when we could build some pretty
incredible things and this is this is
important beyond just pinning and this
is important just beyond just archiving
you could imagine services that are
actually transforming and translating
data and so you could imagine things
like audio processing or video
processing or reformatting and image
sampling could be built on top of this
and there's some nuances to the way
buckets work in the way that we let some
buckets right now are totally public
we're working right now on having
private buckets as well but because
they're totally puppet public you can
actually share that rekey with the
service as well so they can go all the
way down into the thread and expand and
recursively move through this dag and do
work on top of your data and in this
case right now it's just the work is
pinning and exposing that data but it
might be like I said resampling or
formatting or other other operations on
your data so buckets are built on
threads DB so this is really just
another interoperable format thread
buckets are really just a schema and so
if you recall the database part of
threads it's the it's threads that have
a database inside the database or
collections inside of collections or
instances buckets are actually each
bucket you create which is a different
dynamic folder on your disk is actually
just a different instance in a
collection that collection is defined by
a schema that is just buckets something
really cool I think that's happening
here is the interoperability is is is
really powerful and
instances in in any kind of database you
use you probably have some key some
unique ID for an instance in this
collection of in the buckets collection
we've actually made that ID be an IP NS
address and so you already know
immediately that instance defines a
bucket it also has this address which is
interoperable across all ipfs notes that
are exposing IP NS addresses since this
bucket is public I can go to that on any
gateway and and share the content to
this so that's really exciting and
there's a lot of opportunity to do more
with that and different kinds of schemas
that we can build that are beyond
buckets that use the same property to
add interoperable interoperability and
expose really cool features we have a we
have a client which I'll talk about next
that lets you create buckets and push
them to remote IP FS peers quickly here
I'm pushing a folder of four files to a
remote IP FS peer in a one-liner and
then I'm gonna go to a gateway I'm gonna
first I'm gonna ask for all the links
and you'll see one of them is an IP NS
link and I can grab that and go to the
gateway on textile and look at that IPS
at I am s Lincoln there's my web page
and I can go to that on other gateways
as well so we have a lot of work to do
still on just making buckets bigger and
better and more like I said we're
working on private buckets so that would
be the content encrypted we're working
with a few different people to also
support buckets and have
interoperability on other services same
with threats and obviously we're working
on file coin and I'll talk more about
that tomorrow but the idea here is that
threads and buckets would also be
supported on endpoints that can do
storage and persistence on the file coin
network and that gets really super
exciting too because then we just add
another protocol that's all in our
interoperable with these datasets and so
some interesting links for you we have
documentation about buckets on the dock
on the textile docks and we have a bunch
of different blog posts about about
buckets and and how to put them to use
and we'll be doing some more we just
actually that piece I'll talk about next
about the hub we just launched that and
so we're still adding a lot of content
there
and and but I'll share with you some of
the early bits of it so yeah that gets
me to the third piece of technology the
hub and the hub is is where what we were
trying to do is is just reduce the cost
for developers to really come and
experiment and build things I think that
reduction in in the experimentation cost
is the most important KPI for a
developer tooling and for us building on
the network and we what we want to do is
make it easy for developers to come
explore test and fail quickly so that
they can go and test and build the next
thing and really test their ideas on
this thing because it's only if we can
get a thousand developers or tens of
thousand developers to coming be testing
and building that we can have the sparks
that really take off through society and
really make this up make some really big
and impactful successes and so let's try
to lower that cost of adoption and the
cost of of failure and so the hub really
does that and and like I said the hub is
is really just a set of open-source
technologies that include threads and
and buckets support and some IP FS notes
and so really if there's are there if
there are pieces in here that you're
running services and you want to run
these on your own we're happy to help
and walk you through and share with you
what we've done here but so when you go
and grab the CLI for the hub you can
create things like accounts you can
create things like organizations so that
you can share administrative tooling
with other collaborators and you can
invite people to those organizations and
so here I'll create my conifers and I'll
invite an astronaut to my conifers
organization and that means I can create
buckets and teams the buckets and
threads that are collaboratively edited
and managed by this team but that's for
developers and I have mentioned early on
that we have this idea of developers can
provision space so this is this is a
developer provisioning space on the hub
and that will give them hosted ipfs
resources that will give them access to
these networks and protocols through
some persistent nodes but what we really
want to do is let them then pass that on
to their users in a way that their users
still on their data and so I'll get into
that in a second
the hub has OSI ipfs services thread
services has G RPC endpoints we have
some different clients available and and
it really focuses on this idea of
interoperability but offering an easy
onboarding for end-users but probably
the most interesting thing here is the
way that we do the access to those
resources so the developer in the in the
preview I just showed you is setting up
an account with their other developer
team when they want to use the api's
they can actually get what's called an
account key and that account key will
grant them access to everything that
they're doing in the CLI so they can
create buckets they can create new
databases that are totally owned and
controlled by them as a developer or the
organization that they create it in but
they can also create what's called a
user key and a user key thing will grant
access to the API using the resources of
that developer but in a way that lets
the end-user own and control that data
and so this uses PKI so that end-users
who are creating threads in an
application or creating buckets in an
application are actually pushing that
data against the API but it's all
encrypted and private to both the
developer and to textile so then these
users have an easy onboarding they get
their data on persistent ipfs nodes but
they can actually just use IP FS in
there and their private key to get it
back out and or replicate it on their
own nodes or in the future as other
services come online get it into other
services and we think that's really cool
and interesting we're working with
identity providers too to make sure that
this is interoperable and lets users
choose the identity that they want to
use here or if users don't care they
just want to use the application or
service they can just use it and so so
yeah our focus with the hub is really to
create services for dynamic
interoperable and disintermediate
intermediated data and what I mean what
I mean in this context by
disintermediated is that a developer can
come and use the hub and get access to
these resources but then they can get
themselves out of the way when they put
them in put
the resources into their application so
it's really than just a relationship up
between the end user and the hosted
interface but using threads it's
interoperable data formats it's PKI so
the end user really owns it and they're
just more or less borrowing some space
provided by the developer on the hook
and if you want to use these things if
you want to try to build them into your
app let us know we have a slack channel
slack textile IO are always available
trying to help people a lot of the
pieces on the hover early so there's
we're sort of filling in examples we're
filling in documentation but if you have
specific use cases and want help just
let us know we're working as fast as we
can and we also hope that other services
want to adopt these things and build on
it so let us know if you're on that side
and and we're down to help and so those
are the kind of those are kind of
covered really three technologies here
and like I said tomorrow I'll talk about
the power gate but kind of leave the my
presentation off here I wanted to like
step back and just talk about the bigger
picture because I'm really excited to
present at the Pinney and opinion summit
but one thing I got thinking about when
I was putting these slides together is
that text I was just born in a totally
different time we were you know we're
obviously focused on helping people work
with decentralized protocols we're
really focused on making data something
that people can own and can persist on
the online for long periods of time but
really things are changing right now and
the things that are changing may never
go back to the way they normally were
and we want to find people that are
trying to build technologies for that
new world importantly are trying to
build technologies that will bring
positive impact to that new world so if
you're if you're building technology
that brings people together or you're
building technology that keeps people
safe or you're building technology that
just makes a brighter future through
access to healthcare access to education
better access to information we really
want to support you right now so don't
hesitate to get in touch we're here to
provide resources and you know time and
and anything you really need to make
these applications beautiful and shine
right now and that whole new world
that's coming and that we're seeing the
transition is also a big opportunity and
so we want to help you get there so
just let us know and with that thank you
very much awesome thank you so much
Andrew this is phenomenal
um do you folks have any questions for
Freda stickman Q&A or in the chat
threads and buckets are awesome I was
just reading rereading the threads paper
last night so super super cool work
there and thank you all for the amazing
tooling the ur building on ipfs it's
amazing yeah thank you I mean it's just
so much so much protocol labs and the
things we do you really do not some
things and the zero-five-zero launch is
incredible and we're so excited to see
everything just coming together and 2020
is gonna be such an awesome year already
is that one from Pooja
can buckets be integrated into other
services too how would this work yeah
absolutely so there's kind of a couple
concepts going on in buckets the the
primary thing is that it's really just a
schema in a thread Stevie so threads DB
is just a kind of like a set of
protocols and some some opinions about
how the layers of encryption should work
and then how you share those keys and so
what what that would take for other
services to support buckets would really
be to support threads and then to agree
upon some-some schemas that they're
going to they're going to call buckets
so buckets are really our first version
well we'll definitely publish some
documentation on what that looks like
and what the spec is for a bucket but
it's pretty simple right now it's really
just a basic document that has the CID
of the head of the folder and then it
has some UNIX FS type inning behind the
scenes to make sure that that folder is
persistent but it's pretty straight
forward and so if you're building things
like a pinning service it shouldn't be
it shouldn't be out of the park also the
way services run is they're actually
baked into the the the reference
implementation argo threads
implementation so you can already you
can all use that library to stand up
your own services and to accept things
like other threads to follow and so
that's all there and actually the binary
has it as well so you can run the
threads the binary and and build
services on that
it's under documented it is kind of like
the next thing we need a document after
getting people to use these things but
it will come and it's it's there so if
you have questions jump into our github
repo and just fire off some tickets
looks like you have a question from Cody
in the Q&A how do public eight ways know
how to read and present buckets are the
folders representatives UNIX of us
exactly yeah the folders are UNIX FS and
right now I had mentioned that buckets
are only open and because they're open
the authors of the bucket don't really
care about the rete key so they actually
just share the rekey when we have open
threads you wouldn't need to do that but
right now threads are only encrypted and
so what they do is they just the bucket
owner will just share that read key with
a with the hub in this in this case it's
the hub is you can just think of it like
the gateway and because of that that
gateway knows how to go and look in the
thread as a thread service but then it
also can see that CID because it has the
read key and then it will just it will
just pin that you know UNIX FS folder
and there's a lot of enhancements we can
do there and we're working on a lot of
those things so but it's working really
well right now
so did I understand quickly that threads
are per user encrypted by default now
and that you will support not encrypt
yourself later it's not encrypted
already possible so so that gets into
some pretty deep technical things so the
thing that's really novel and
interesting around threads is it's
actually a thread is a collection of
single writer logs that then have have a
modular crc rdt that turned that into a
database each of those logs is privately
is privately owned by each user and then
the encryption is happening through a
symmetric key per update and so they're
just generated each time there's an
update and then that is encrypted after
some things with the read key which is
shared with everybody all the different
logs that are pushing to that database
share that read key and all of that is
default so that all that encryption is
happening and we're looking at ways to
unlock that so you could have a totally
open thread that people could read but
also threats could support things like
single writer many reader and and many
many writers scenario
thank you